.TH PREAUR-CONFIG 5 "" "PreAUR 0.0.5" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
preaur.config.yaml \- PreAUR configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The PreAUR configuration file is YAML. It defines maintainers, package checks, build resources, project git automation, and optional chroot pacman repository settings.
.SH FIELDS
.SS
Top\-Level
.TP
.B maintainers
Type: array<object>. Required: yes. Known PreAUR maintainers.
.TP
.B default_maintainer
Type: string. Required: no. Maintainer id used when a package omits maintainer.
.TP
.B git
Type: object. Required: no. Default: {}. Project repository automation.
.TP
.B config
Type: object. Required: no. Runtime behavior settings.
.TP
.B resources
Type: object. Required: no. Default: {}. Build and check concurrency settings.
.TP
.B repo
Type: object. Required: no. Local pacman repository settings.
.TP
.B packages
Type: array<object>. Required: yes. Packages managed by PreAUR.
.SS
maintainers[]
A packager identity.
.TP
.B id
Type: string. Required: yes. Stable maintainer id used by packages.
.TP
.B name
Type: string. Required: yes. Maintainer display name.
.TP
.B email
Type: string. Required: yes. Maintainer email address.
.SS
git
Project repository automation.
.TP
.B enabled
Type: boolean. Required: no. Default: true. Enable project git automation.
.TP
.B remote
Type: string. Required: no. Default: "origin". Remote used for sync and push.
.TP
.B branch
Type: string. Required: no. Branch used for sync and push. Default: current branch.
.TP
.B sync
Type: object. Required: no. Default: {}. Project git startup sync policy.
.TP
.B push
Type: object. Required: no. Default: {}. Project git push policy.
.SS
git.sync
Project git startup sync policy.
.TP
.B allow_remote_overwrite_local
Type: boolean. Required: no. Default: false. Reset local state to remote during sync.
.TP
.B allowRemoteOverwriteLocal
Type: boolean. Required: no. CamelCase alias for allow_remote_overwrite_local.
.SS
git.push
Project git push policy.
.TP
.B force
Type: boolean. Required: no. Default: false. Use git push \-\-force after builds.
.SS
config
Runtime behavior settings.
.TP
.B pkgbuildParser
Type: native | makepkg. Required: no. PKGBUILD parser implementation.
.TP
.B trustedAurGitPrefixes
Type: array<string>. Required: no. Git URL prefixes treated as AUR package sources.
.TP
.B chrootPacman
Type: object. Required: no. Pacman configuration added to devtools chroots.
.SS
config.chrootPacman
Pacman configuration added to devtools chroots.
.TP
.B include
Type: array<string>. Required: no. Host files included into generated pacman.conf.
.TP
.B lines
Type: array<string>. Required: no. Raw pacman.conf lines appended globally.
.TP
.B repositories
Type: array<object>. Required: no. Custom chroot pacman repositories.
.SS
config.chrootPacman.repositories[]
A custom pacman repository for chroot builds.
.TP
.B name
Type: string. Required: yes. Pacman repository name.
.TP
.B siglevel
Type: string | array<string>. Required: no. Repository SigLevel line.
.TP
.B include
Type: array<string>. Required: no. Host files included into this repository block.
.TP
.B lines
Type: array<string>. Required: no. Raw pacman.conf lines appended to this repository block.
.SS
resources
Build and check concurrency settings.
.TP
.B cpu
Type: string. Required: no. CPU allocation passed to builders.
.TP
.B parallel
Type: integer. Required: no. Default: 2. Concurrent package builds.
.TP
.B updateCheckCocurrent
Type: integer. Required: no. Default: 1. Concurrent version checks.
.SS
repo
Local pacman repository settings.
.TP
.B name
Type: string. Required: yes. Local pacman repository name.
.SS
packages[]
A package build entry.
.TP
.B pkgname
Type: string. Required: yes. Local package name.
.TP
.B maintainer
Type: string. Required: no. Maintainer id. Defaults to default_maintainer.
.TP
.B allow_orphan_package_build
Type: boolean. Required: no. Allow building an orphan AUR package.
.TP
.B aur_pkgname
Type: string. Required: no. AUR package name when it differs from pkgname.
.TP
.B git
Type: string. Required: no. Package PKGBUILD git URL override.
.TP
.B checker
Type: object. Required: no. Upstream version checker.
.TP
.B builder
Type: string. Required: no. Build command such as extra\-x86_64\-build.
.TP
.B push
Type: boolean. Required: no. Push package PKGBUILD changes to AUR on success.
.TP
.B dummy_packages
Type: array<object>. Required: no. Dummy packages installed before build.
.TP
.B repo_packages
Type: array<string>. Required: no. Local repo packages required before this build.
.TP
.B pre\-build\-packages
Type: array<string>. Required: no. Packages installed in chroot before build.
.TP
.B pre\-build\-scripts
Type: array<string>. Required: no. Root scripts run in chroot before build.
.TP
.B pre_build_packages
Type: array<string>. Required: no. Alias for pre\-build\-packages.
.TP
.B pre_build_scripts
Type: array<string>. Required: no. Alias for pre\-build\-scripts.
.SS
packages[].checker: github
GitHub version checker.
.TP
.B strip_version
Type: boolean. Required: no. Strip common version prefixes before comparison.
.TP
.B normalize
Type: boolean. Required: no. Normalize upstream version text.
.TP
.B template
Type: string. Required: no. Template mapping upstream version text to PKGBUILD variables.
.TP
.B type
Type: "github". Required: yes. Use GitHub release data.
.TP
.B repo
Type: string. Required: yes. GitHub repository as owner/name.
.TP
.B use
Type: string. Required: no. Release selector such as release or prerelease.
.TP
.B prefix
Type: string. Required: no. Version tag prefix to strip.
.TP
.B suffix
Type: string. Required: no. Version tag suffix to strip.
.SS
packages[].checker: deb
Debian repository version checker.
.TP
.B strip_version
Type: boolean. Required: no. Strip common version prefixes before comparison.
.TP
.B normalize
Type: boolean. Required: no. Normalize upstream version text.
.TP
.B template
Type: string. Required: no. Template mapping upstream version text to PKGBUILD variables.
.TP
.B type
Type: "deb". Required: yes. Use a Debian Packages index.
.TP
.B url
Type: string. Required: yes. Repository base URL.
.TP
.B pkg
Type: string. Required: yes. Debian package name.
.TP
.B dist
Type: string. Required: yes. Debian distribution name.
.TP
.B component
Type: string. Required: yes. Debian repository component.
.TP
.B arch
Type: string. Required: no. Debian architecture.
.SS
packages[].checker: rpm
RPM repository version checker.
.TP
.B strip_version
Type: boolean. Required: no. Strip common version prefixes before comparison.
.TP
.B normalize
Type: boolean. Required: no. Normalize upstream version text.
.TP
.B template
Type: string. Required: no. Template mapping upstream version text to PKGBUILD variables.
.TP
.B type
Type: "rpm". Required: yes. Use an RPM repository.
.TP
.B url
Type: string. Required: yes. Repository base URL.
.TP
.B pkg
Type: string. Required: yes. RPM package name.
.SS
packages[].dummy_packages[]
A generated dummy dependency package.
.TP
.B dummy
Type: string. Required: yes. Dummy package name.
.TP
.B epoch
Type: string | number. Required: no. Dummy package epoch.
.TP
.B pkgver
Type: string | number. Required: no. Dummy package version.
.TP
.B pkgrel
Type: string | number. Required: no. Dummy package release.
.TP
.B files
Type: array<string>. Required: no. Files provided by the dummy package.
.SH GENERATED FROM
This page is generated from the Zod configuration schema by \fBbun run gen-schema\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR preaur (1)
